In 2013, when Xiaoyun was a senior in Carnegie Mellon University, she attended a Y-Combinator info session where Sam Altman brought a few startup founders to talk about entrepreneurship. One of the founders talked about how he developed his business based on the open source model. His words were specifically "charging your customers to do the work for you". Xiaoyun was instantly fascinated and has became obsessed with the idea of making open sourcing and crowdsourcing sustainable for the contributors. She later learned that her obsession falls under the umbrella of an emerging market trend called the sharing economy or gig-economy.

After Xiaoyun graduated from Carnegie Mellon University with her Bachelor's and Master's degrees in Electrical and Computer Engineering, she commissioned through the Navy ROTC program and got stationed in Washington, DC at Naval Reactors. In DC, Xiaoyun met Andrew who was a math teacher at the time. Andrew told Xiaoyun an idea he had for a mobile game to teach young children the concept of quantity. Over the summer, Xiaoyun helped Andrew develop the math-learning mobile app in her spare time. She coded up the app while Andrew provided assets and artistic direction for the app. Although she never developed an iOS app before, she read Apple's documentation and looked up online tutorials and studied other people's sample projects. This is the moment when the early idea for LooseLeaf came to light.

Fast forward to 2018, after two betas, two TechDay exhibits and talking to countless people including friends, coworkers, and strangers at meetups, Xiaoyun and Andrew refined the idea for LooseLeaf after coming to the combined realization that people with app ideas want to see their apps built but don't always have the capacity to do it themselves or invest money in hiring a freelancer to do it. But they are eager to work with someone who would contribute their skills to make the app a reality while benefiting from the experience and validation having worked on a fun, skill-building project with someone else.
